I started going through the readme, and this all reads too chaotic
now. I now think that we should just focus on one good Arxiv overview
paper, that has the following structure:

Let us restructure the arxiv overview paper completely:

    Introduction,
        AI Disclaimer
        “Why it is hard” explainer
        Scope and Overview, Structure of Paper 
    Current Status – in not fully technical abstract terms, main results, similar to current README headlines. After 25 years, this is where we stand. That the problem is still open ( BUT double check one more time by doing a Web search!!!)
    History
        (A. Cohn, My Work, report 7 and all that, my results, Lutz+Wolter results, why it doesn’t apply, all the content we already have) 
    Why standard undecidability proofs fail
        All that stuff we already have 
    Overview of approaches – let us structure this by technique; don’t do this round / date based, but by technique; in rough order, we tried:
        Naiive Tableaux + and blocking
            Describe high-level ideas
            Describe all blocking conditions we investigated
                All the triangle types and all that…
                Link to the work (papers and scripts; describe briefly) 
            Describe why they all fail
                1-point extension problem, dormant foralls, new qualifications into old nodes causing them to unblock, etc.
                Describe the main examples that made us realize why these conditions all fail – this is important
                Link to the material (probes/scripts that exercise counter examples, …) 
            Summarize the main findings and lessons learned, so that nobody will ever go the wrong route to this extent
        Finite-Model and Rduction Attempts  
            Idea to collapse pp/ppi chains into clusters / loops? Was that two tier?
            Again, same structure as for the tableaux:
                main high-level ideas
                describe techniques / ideas (establish a finite bound on the model size, enumerate and check, …)
                describe why and where they fail; counter examples if exist
                link to the concrete artefacts (papers, scripts, work done, ..) 
            Describe the WIN – po-free fragment decidable, MSO encoding, (?) – DOES THIS BELONG HERE; or do we need a separate section maybe?
            Describe why this seemed a dead end, why it was hard, why we transitioned to the 
        Not sure if we should have a section here: REDUCTION ATTEMPTS (-> MSO, TWO TIER?)
            See above; decide how to be describe and integrate 
        Describe the Split-Forest idea (my whiteboard, …)
            Why this seemed promising (tree-like inifinite model abstraction, … usually gains decidability if tree, etc.)
            Describe how and why we transitioned 
        Describe how we continued from there with the proofs (how would you describe / classify these?)
            Same overall structure
        Automata-based approached – these “consumed” the split-forests, right?
            Same overall structure – idea, attempts, what has been achieved, what are the counter examples, scripts, papers, techniques; what did we learn, etc.
            Why did we abandon parity automata-based approaches again? High level exaplanation please, and why we transitioned 
        Describe the latest line of research that culminated in LEAN and F6 etc.
            Give a short intro of LEAN and how we use it
            Same overall structure
            What has been formalized, what has been achieved 
        Describe the potential pivot to the regular covers, using an idea similar to TWO-TIER.         
            Same PO-free decidability result, strong, and usable 
    Current Implementation – Reasoners
        Describe the reasoners and tools we have; on what foundation do they rest
        That they appear to work, strong evidence, but no proof
        GIS example 
    On Agentic AI Usage
        Pattern we used successfully and repeadedly, what we learned (cold review, double check, scripts, don’t trust but verify, …) 
    Summary and Conclusion
        What we learned
        What needs to be invesitaged that we didn’t that would move the needle
        What AI contributed, why I (the human) contributed
        An estimate of the chances of success of closing F6 (or related Lemmas from the pivot paper) and what it would take and that it is really hard and that it would be foolish to attempt and recreate what we already did (probably zero chances of success?)
        What the outcome and wins are from this project!
            PO-free, Lean, RCC lemma, … the reasoners
            A conditional full verified decidability theorem (resing on the F6 oracle)
            Etc.
            Honest assessment – and is this good enough for an arxiv paper, a real scientific contribution? 
        Provide LINKS to the main papers, LEAN artifacts, and implementations – use Bibtex
    Bilbiography
    Appendix:
        DL 2026 rejection paragraphs and grievance discussion etc.; open letter, all that 

For the README, I now think that we should just point to the paper and
basically have two or three high-level paragraph only. README:

    Introduction / About
    Current Status and Results
    Methodology (AI, also mention CONVErsation.md, our honesty priniples, that we think that the models should be authors / co-authors, and why, …)
    Main Results
        Main papers
        Reasoners
        GIS Example
        LEAN formalization (can you provide highj-level explanaions as well?) 
    Summary and outlook
        Main points from the paper 

    Appendixes:

      List of main tools
      List of main papers
      List of LEAN artefacts
      DL Rejection discussion 

 
So, rework / rewrite the one overview paper first. Then do the README.

Next, we also delete outdated overview papers. We leave the historical
DL paper the way it is.

Start by moving all materials in a “backup” folder, and then do a
clean write-up based pull-in of the relevant materials. Do a
re-structure in a new file folder, where we organize the work in
sub-folder per approach:

 
Tableaux/

   papers/

   Probes/

   Reasoners/

   formal/

   Overview.md

Automata/

   Parity/

       Papers/

       Probes/

       Reasoners/

       Formal

TwoTier/

       ..

etc.

Try to reuse as much of the content you had already written, if it is
not stale – e.g., about the capabilities of llms for frontier dl
research etc. But give it an honest and thorough review and audit
first. If anything is stale, it should be removed.

 
Another thing to add for the Outlock / Future research section in the
overview arxiv paper:

    The human is the bottleneck. Although some of the key insights,
    overall intuitions and directions were provided by the human, the
    human still needed to orchestrate and review and rewrite the
    prompts after each round, which is time consuming At that rate, 80
    rounds take about 4 months…  Automomous sub-agents directing the
    research might find something, but the costs might be prohibitive
    It’s worth trying, but also a loss of direct oversight and
    control, but it should be feasible given that there is a clearly
    defined objective, and the objective is machine verifiable via
    Lean. Would you agree with that? If so, write it up.

 
